Darknet: selling confidential information?
Information about leaks of confidential user information to the Darknet is increasingly emerging on the network.
But what is it, how does it work, and what can you do to save your data?
What is Darknet?
The Dark Web is the hidden part of the Internet. Translated from English, DarkNet literally means - shadow
or the dark web. It is only accessible through certain programs and tools that keep users anonymous and protect their personal information.
Participants on the Dark Web are called peers. The connection is made between them only in encrypted format
after mutual approval. The domains and address space on the Dark Web are also their own.
Even to get into the Darknet, you need special software. One of them is Tor Browser.
It encrypts the user's traffic while he is in contact with someone on the network. But when he enters or leaves it, it is quite possible to track him.
While the Dark Web is used for more than just disclosed activities, including
communication and information exchange, there are often cases of selling confidential information of users.
Are only criminals on the Darknet?
No. The darknet is not about criminals and criminal gangs, but about an alternative network,
where everything is different. Yes, it should be borne in mind that there is an illegal trade in goods and services,
including drugs, weapons, false documents, and more. But beyond that, the Dark Web is filled with useful information. For example, data libraries without state censorship or the official representation of Facebook.
Each user of the “dark web” can simply communicate with anyone on it and go unnoticed.
How and where does information leak from?
The darknet, like any other market, is based on the principle of supply and consumption.
Including here you can buy and sell various types of information, including confidential data
users. Such information can be stolen from site owners, companies or government organizations.
But, stealing the entire database of confidential information still does not work. In the Darknet, as in others
systems, many intermediaries work, which forms a whole chain of consequences.
For example, the so-called “breakthrough” is carried out by employees of banks, the police, the Federal Migration Service, etc.
One of them looks through the data of two clients, and photographs information about the third on the phone,
which is called "breaking through". But keeping track of this process is extremely difficult, even with a system
DLP.
So far, no one steals biometric data, but if with their help it will be possible to get a loan (which many banks already want to implement), a real race will begin for this information.
Selling sensitive information on the Dark Web is an illegal and dangerous activity that can lead to serious consequences for both individuals and organizations. Therefore, it is always important to protect your personal information and not to trust its storage to companies or sites that do not have a reliable security system.